---
title: Jorvote
description: Shelley tools
order: 2
parent: 2020-05-04_04-00-00_tools
last_updated: "2020-05-01T09:00:00+01:00"
redirects:
  - from: /en/cardano/shelley/tools/sdk/
    type: 301
---
## Jorvote

Recently an announcement was published about extending the ITN network. In this article we explained that we wanted to poll ADA holders of the ITN to decide the course of action to take. In order to participate in vote we have created a simple application to make this activity more straightforward. 

After downloading the application you will be presented with the proposal you are to vote on in the UI display. 

Wallet nmnenoics of itn - green bar
Will restore your reward account key and can vote 
Green bar can vote
Support for reward account

In order to vote you need to enter your recovery phrase which restores your ITN wallet with the ADA amount you are able to use to vote. Note that our voting mechanism takes into account the stake casted not the number of votes casted.
    
There are three options to vote 
* **Yes**: Vote for the proposal
* **No**: Vote against the proposal
Abstain: Vote to abstain (neither counted as a yes or no)

Plick the value you want according to your preferences

You will know that your vote has been successful when you receive an acknowledgement message

The launchers for jorvote can be found below. We only provide installers for Windows and Mac platforms. Use those installers exclusively, do NOT install Jorvote by any other ways or your recovery phrase could be stolen. When you enter your recovery phrase verify that none else can look at your screen.

Windows
<url>
<pgp signature>
<sha 256 checksum>

OS X
<url>
<pgp signature>
<sha 256 checksum>
