---
title: Overview
description: Glow
order: 1
parent: 2020-05-04_06-00-00_glow
last_updated: "2020-12-03T17:00:00+01:00"
hasNoChildContent: true
---
## Overview

[Glow](https://glow-lang.org/) is a new domain specific language (DSL) for developing decentralized applications (DApps) on blockchain. With Glow, you can write secure DApps and be assured that your smart contracts can run safely in an adversarial environment. Glow is the brainchild of [MuKn](https://mukn.io), a valued community partner within the Cardano ecosystem. 

Glow is a language to develop not just a smart contract, but an entire DApp itself, which also includes client code and formal proofs. It is backed by formal methods that are intrinsically built into the language and its actual implementation. It is this inherent correctness of the language that means the code will perform as expected and the DApp will behave as users want (so users do not have their transactions blocked or their assets locked). 

Additionally, the Glow compiler generates matching client code, and a logical model of your DApp, so you can actually prove that it is correct prior to deploying it. From a single Glow specification, the compiler will generate matching code for both the DApp client and the smart contract itself. The runtime component tracks the code versions to ensure you are always using the correct, matching, and trusted versions of both the client and smart contract. Finally, since correctness is such a priority for DApps, Glow helps you specify a logical model of your DApp, so you can formally verify that it is indeed correct.

Glow is the very latest addition to the suite of developer tools languages for Cardano. Here’s where to get started. We will be expanding the list of resources and documentation to support our integration with Glow over the weeks ahead. If you want to get involved, please join our dedicated devnets developer program by [taking our short survey](https://input-output.typeform.com/c/OJsf0XcD).

