---
parent: 2020-05-05_12-27-39_get-started
title: Daedalus wallet for the Cardano Shelley testnet
description: Shelley Haskell testnet wallet
order: 1
external_href: ""
last_updated: 2020-06-29T14:34:35+01:00
---
## Daedalus wallet for the Cardano Shelley testnet

Download any of the special testnet-only versions of the Daedalus wallet and install it by following the on-screen instructions. Please note this wallet is for testing purposes only. It may not be fully-featured and may contain bugs.

__NOTE: this wallet is for use on the Shelley testnet only.__

<!-- include components/ShelleyDaedalusDownloaders -->

1. Open the Daedalus wallet.
1. Select your preferred language.
1. Agree to the terms and conditions.
1. Daedalus will sync with the blockchain. This may take several minutes.
1. Click on ‘Create a new wallet’. 

Name your wallet and create a spending password. Note that the password needs: 

- to be at least 7 characters long;
- to have at least 1 upper-case letter;
- to have at least 1 lower-case letter;
- and to have at least 1 number.


1. You will be prompted to a screen where you will see a 12-word recovery phrase. This is your wallet backup phrase. Make sure you write it down and keep it in a safe place.
1. Select the words of your recovery phrase in the exact order. 
1. Read carefully the messages and put a tick in the boxes. Click on the confirm button. 


### Getting funds from the faucet

1. Go to the Receive tab.
1. Type in your password.
1. Click on ‘Generate new address’. The new address will be displayed in the list of generated addresses below.
1. From the list, choose your new address and click in ‘Copy address’. 
1. Open your browser and go to the [faucet address](/byron/tools/faucet/).
1. Paste your address in the corresponding space.
1. Complete the recaptcha.
1. Click on Request. 
1. Wait a few minutes for the tokens to be sent to your wallet.

### Send and receive tokens

To send tokens:

1. Go to the SEND tab.
1. Enter the receiver address.
1. Enter the amount of tokens to send.
1. Click on the next button. 
1. Type in your spending password.
1. Click on the send button.
1. Wait a few seconds for your transaction to be processed and confirmed. 
1. In the summary you can see all the details of your transaction. 


To Receive tokens:

1. Go to the ‘Receive’ tab.
1. Type in your password.
1. Click on ‘Generate new address’. A list of generated addresses will be shown below.
1. From the list, choose your new address and click in ‘Copy address’.
1. Give your new address to the sender.
