---
title: Overview
description: KEVM overview
parent: 2020-05-04_11-00-00_kevm
order: 1
last_updated: "2020-12-17T11:30:00+01:00"
hasNoChildContent: true
redirects:
  - from: /en/kevm/
    type: "301"
---
## Overview
As Cardano thrives and evolves, the network is expanding its reach and interoperability by creating novel avenues of cooperation. We are now opening Cardano up to the Solidity/Ethereum community via a compatible and interoperable platform using their native code.

Such a framework will create a permanent bridge that will enable developers to work seamlessly across both ecosystems, now and into the future.
To this end, we are restarting and accelerating the K Ethereum Virtual Machine (KEVM) program, a ‘correct-by-construction’ version of the Ethereum virtual machine (EVM) specified in the K framework.

During late November 2021, we upgraded the devnet with compatibility up to and including the Berlin hard fork Ethereum Improvement Protocols (EIPs). As part of this upgrade, we reset the chain back to the Genesis block.

The K Framework is a semantics platform used to create formally-verified programming languages and VMs. K enables developers to define or implement the formal semantics of a programming language in an intuitive and modular way. K also generates an executable, 'correct by construction VM' from its formal specification, which is fast and powerful enough to run real programs and smart contracts. Long term, in partnership with our friends at Runtime Verification, we want to build a K environment where we can just 'plug-and-play' new VMs.

On these pages, you will find information and instructions for developers who wish to use the KEVM. It allows developers to experiment with any smart contract that can be run on the EVM, and offers improved security and performance. K is a means to formally verify software so the code can be automatically checked for any flaws, and can be proven to run exactly as it should.

We look forward to your support and feedback. If you wish to join the dedicated developer program for KEVM, please [take our short survey](https://input-output.typeform.com/c/OJsf0XcD) and we’ll be in touch in due course.
